src/support/downloads.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Downloads
page_id: support-downloads
redirects:
  - /download/
---

## Crazyflie Python client

Latest stable releases for Win/Mac OSX/Linux can be found
[here](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-clients-python/releases "Github releases for crazyflie-clients-python").

## Crazyflie mobile clients

* [Android client](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=se.bitcraze.crazyfliecontrol2)
* [iOS client](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/crazyflie-2.0/id946151480)

## Crazyflie Nano Quadcopter (1.0) and Crazyflie 2.X firmware

Latest stable release can be found
[here](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-release/releases "GitHub releases for crazyflie-firmware").

[Update](/documentation/repository/crazyflie-clients-python/master/userguides/userguide_client/#firmware-upgrade)
using the python client and a Crazyradio, or from a mobile device. 
[release](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/releases).

## Crazyradio and Crazyradio PA firmware

Latest stable releases can be found [here](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyradio-firmware/releases "GitHub releases for crazyradio-firmware")
(**Note:** Make sure to select the PA version for the Crazyradio PA)

## Bitcraze Virtual Machine

See the VM download section on [github](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-vm/releases/)
for the latest version. You will also find older versions there if you need them.

Commit message:

update support pages with more up to date info

src/support/downloads.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Downloads & Install
page_id: support-downloads
redirects:
  - /download/
---

## Crazyflie stand-alone Python client

The cfclient needs to be installed with **Python Pip**. Please follow [the install instructions for the latest release](https://www.bitcraze.io/documentation/repository/crazyflie-clients-python/master/installation/install/).

## Crazyflie mobile clients

* [Android client](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=se.bitcraze.crazyfliecontrol2)
* [iOS client](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/crazyflie-2.0/id946151480)

## Crazyflie ROS client CrazySwarm

This is an external project. Please consult [the Crazyswarm website](https://crazyswarm.readthedocs.io/) for download and installation instructions.

## Crazyflie 2.X firmware

Reflash the crazyflie's firmware with [the cfclient firmware instructions](/documentation/repository/crazyflie-clients-python/master/userguides/userguide_client/#firmware-upgrade) with a {% id_link product-crazyradio-pa %} or from a mobile device app 

Latest stable release of the binary files can be found
[in the github releases page](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-release/releases "GitHub releases for crazyflie-firmware").

## Bitcraze Virtual Machine

See the VM download section on [github](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-vm/releases/)
for the latest version. You will also find older versions there if you need them.

Please consult the [getting started tutorial for installation instructions for the VM](https://www.bitcraze.io/documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyflie-2-x/#inst-virtualmachine)
