src/about/events/adws12021.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: AIdeck Workshop 1 - 2021
page_id: adws-1-2021
---
{% img crazyflie aideck; narrow; /images/events/adws12021/crazyflie_aideck.jpg %}

On Friday the 16th of April in the afternoon, we hosted an [AIdeck workshop](https://store.bitcraze.io/products/ai-deck-1-1) given by the PULP lab featuring Greenwaves Technologies. 

## Information

*Date and Time*: **16th April 2021, 14:00 (2 pm) - 16:00 (4 pm)** (Central European Summer Time)

*Place*: [The Bitcraze Discord server](https://discord.gg/dJMtnPZnvU) in **tutorials and workshops**

*Speakers*:
* Lorenzo Lamberti (University of Bologna)
* Hanna Müller (ETH Zürich)
* Vlad Niculescu (ETH Zürich)
* Dr. Manuele Rusci (University of Bologna / Greenwaves Technology)
* Dr. Daniele Palossi (IDSIA Lugano / ETH Zürich)

### Program:
{% img Program; large; /images/events/adws12021/program.png %}

### Recordings and Slides

#### Slides
* **[PDF of all slides of the AI-deck workshop](documents/aideck_workshop_1_allslides.pdf)**

#### Code
*  **[AI-deck workshop Code repository](https://github.com/pulp-platform/AI-deck-workshop)**

#### Recording

**Full recording of the workshop**

{% youtube o9asYPHxEB4; medium; 16by9 %}


**Video links per topic**
* [PULP introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=0s) (Daniele)
* [GAP8 architecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=1082s) (Manuele)
* [AI-deck overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=1675s) (Hanna)
* [Hands-On 1 Basic Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=2374s) (Hanna)
* [Hands-On 2 Image Manipulation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=2863s) (Hanna)
* [Hands-On 3 Firmware Integration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=3676s) (Vlad)
* [Hands-On 4 Video Streaming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=4571s) (Lorenzo)
* [Final Remarks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=5687s) (Daniele)


### Instructions:
After entering [the Bitcraze Discord server](https://discord.gg/dJMtnPZnvU), the workshop will be given in **tutorial and workshops** category.:
* **tutorial_video**: The live video of the presenters and the slides will be shown here. The sound and video will be disabled for participants.
* **tutorial_chat**: Here you can ask questions and talk to the presenters.
{% img Program; small; /images/events/adws12021/discord.png %}



### Virtual Machine:
For this workshop we have made a [Bitcraze VM with AIdeck development environment](https://files.bitcraze.io/public/vm/BitcrazeVM_aideck.ova) (10Gb). This VM has already preconfigured docker images for flashing both the GAP8 and the NINA chip. All you need to do is to cd to your examples (like 'cd projects/AIdeck_examples/GAP8/test_functionalities/test_camera') and type the following command:
- If you want to try out the code on RAM only: 	'gap_run'
- If you want to flash the gap8:               	'gap_flash'

To reflash the NINA, go to 'AIdeck_examples/NINA/firmware' and type:
- To configure and flash the Nina: 		'nina_flash'

These commands are configured ~/.bashrc. Also check if the configured programmer file in the same script matches yours!

If you rather want to install the gap_sdk natively (only Ubuntu), please follow the [gap_sdk instructions](https://greenwaves-technologies.com/manuals/BUILD/HOME/html/index.html) by Greenwaves Technologies. Make sure to also have gap_tools installed and to do this ahead of time of the workshop as it takes about an hour to set-it-up.

Commit message:

Changed links to products. They used to point at the store but are now pointing at the product pages on the web or using product pop-links instead.

src/about/events/adws12021.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: AIdeck Workshop 1 - 2021
page_id: adws-1-2021
---
{% img crazyflie aideck; narrow; /images/events/adws12021/crazyflie_aideck.jpg %}

On Friday the 16th of April in the afternoon, we hosted an {% id_link product-ai-deck-1-1 %} given by the PULP lab featuring Greenwaves Technologies.

## Information

*Date and Time*: **16th April 2021, 14:00 (2 pm) - 16:00 (4 pm)** (Central European Summer Time)

*Place*: [The Bitcraze Discord server](https://discord.gg/dJMtnPZnvU) in **tutorials and workshops**

*Speakers*:
* Lorenzo Lamberti (University of Bologna)
* Hanna Müller (ETH Zürich)
* Vlad Niculescu (ETH Zürich)
* Dr. Manuele Rusci (University of Bologna / Greenwaves Technology)
* Dr. Daniele Palossi (IDSIA Lugano / ETH Zürich)

### Program:
{% img Program; large; /images/events/adws12021/program.png %}

### Recordings and Slides

#### Slides
* **[PDF of all slides of the AI-deck workshop](documents/aideck_workshop_1_allslides.pdf)**

#### Code
*  **[AI-deck workshop Code repository](https://github.com/pulp-platform/AI-deck-workshop)**

#### Recording

**Full recording of the workshop**

{% youtube o9asYPHxEB4; medium; 16by9 %}


**Video links per topic**
* [PULP introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=0s) (Daniele)
* [GAP8 architecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=1082s) (Manuele)
* [AI-deck overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=1675s) (Hanna)
* [Hands-On 1 Basic Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=2374s) (Hanna)
* [Hands-On 2 Image Manipulation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=2863s) (Hanna)
* [Hands-On 3 Firmware Integration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=3676s) (Vlad)
* [Hands-On 4 Video Streaming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=4571s) (Lorenzo)
* [Final Remarks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o9asYPHxEB4&t=5687s) (Daniele)


### Instructions:
After entering [the Bitcraze Discord server](https://discord.gg/dJMtnPZnvU), the workshop will be given in **tutorial and workshops** category.:
* **tutorial_video**: The live video of the presenters and the slides will be shown here. The sound and video will be disabled for participants.
* **tutorial_chat**: Here you can ask questions and talk to the presenters.
{% img Program; small; /images/events/adws12021/discord.png %}



### Virtual Machine:
For this workshop we have made a [Bitcraze VM with AIdeck development environment](https://files.bitcraze.io/public/vm/BitcrazeVM_aideck.ova) (10Gb). This VM has already preconfigured docker images for flashing both the GAP8 and the NINA chip. All you need to do is to cd to your examples (like 'cd projects/AIdeck_examples/GAP8/test_functionalities/test_camera') and type the following command:
- If you want to try out the code on RAM only: 	'gap_run'
- If you want to flash the gap8:               	'gap_flash'

To reflash the NINA, go to 'AIdeck_examples/NINA/firmware' and type:
- To configure and flash the Nina: 		'nina_flash'

These commands are configured ~/.bashrc. Also check if the configured programmer file in the same script matches yours!

If you rather want to install the gap_sdk natively (only Ubuntu), please follow the [gap_sdk instructions](https://greenwaves-technologies.com/manuals/BUILD/HOME/html/index.html) by Greenwaves Technologies. Make sure to also have gap_tools installed and to do this ahead of time of the workshop as it takes about an hour to set-it-up.
