src/about/events/bct12020.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Bitcraze Tutorial 1 - 2020
page_id: bct-1-2020
---

This page describes the first online live Bitcraze tutorial session were we have explained the lighthouse spiraling swarm demo we have been showing and multiple conferences in the last few years. Here we will mostly focus on the lighthouse positioning system, high level commander and the App layer.

**Registration is closed**
-----
## Tutorial information

<div class="video-no-controls">
<video autobuffer controls autoplay muted loop>
  <source src="/videos/lh2_sweeps.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
</div>

Here you will find the information about the tutorial itself.

### Schedule

Date: __4th of November 2020__

Start time: __18:00 CET__ (Malmö Sweden)

Place: Online on __Discord__ and __Mozilla hubs__

Schedule:
* 17:45 - 18:00: Walk in (especially for Mozilla hubs)
* 18:00 - 18:35: Tutorial part 1 - Lighthouse positioning
* 18:35 - 18:45: Questions
* 18:45 - 19:00: Break
* 19:00 - 19:35: Tutorial part 2 - Swarm Autonomy
* 19:35 - 19:45: Questions
* 19:45 - - - - - : Socializing

### Topics

For the tutorial we will assume that you already know the Crazyflie and have done some development for it in some way, so the introduction to our ecosystem will be very brief.

There are two main parts of the tutorial:
* Lighthouse v2. We will explain how to setup the lighthouse v2 with the theory of how it works, and eventually fly with it with one crazyflie.
* Swarm Autonomy. Here we will explain communication with the swarm and how to move more autonomy into the Crazyflie (very important for flying with swarms). High-level commander and the App layer will be explained here. After this the full demo can be shown.

### Location

* __Starting point__: On the day of the event we will send you an email with an invite to our_Discord_ server, which is the virtual starting portal to our tutorial. So make sure that you have a discord account already.
* __Discord__: In Discord, there will be one channel for the video stream of the tutorial, and one channel for chat and question.
* __Mozilla hubs__: In the discord channel for chat there also be the link to the _mozilla hubs room_.
* __Limitation__: There is no limitation on how many people can join the streaming discord channel. There is going to be a limit on how many people can join mozilla hubs. We will reduce this to _20-30 people_ due to of the environment getting slow. We will indicate how the progress is going during the event but everybody who already indicated that they will join mozilla hubs have priority obviously.

### Socializing

During the break and after the tutorial we can answer questions that are still remaining. We would prefer if they could be limited to the topics that we cover in the tutorial to also give us Bitcrazers some time to socialize with you guys in either mozilla hubs or discord :) That is something that we also really miss from not going to conferences so we are looking forward to meeting you all!

### Slides and Presentation

After the event, we will post the slides we used here and a link to the recordings of the tutorial.

* The slides of the event can be found [here](documents/tutorial_demo_presentation.pdf)




{% youtube K1qmc8K3RUA; medium; 16by9 %}

{% youtube LG7_gyhrPqE; medium; 16by9 %}



### Questions and Answers
What are the main differences bitween the Loco positioning and the Lighthouse?
* Loco positioning is using UWB and Lighthouse laser sweeps [https://www.bitcraze.io/documentation/system/positioning/](/documentation/system/positioning/)

You said V2 doesn't use all the calibration values (yet). Does it mean you can get a better accuracy with V1 for the moment?
* I don't have any numbers for accuracy for V1 and V2, but they are probably fairly similar. The geometry of V2 makes it more sensitive to errors though

How much space can we cover compared to V1?
* Lighthouse is not limited to 2 base stations (as opposed to V1)

Could you please provide some links for v1 calibration
* Lighthouse V1 calibration [https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/src/utils/src/lighthouse/lighthouse_calibration.c#L126-L136](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/src/utils/src/lighthouse/lighthouse_calibration.c#L126-L136). We have not yet documented how to read/write calib data yet, but it can be done from the app layer in the Crazyflie.

What is the functional range of lighthouse ?
* The range of a lighthouse 2 base station is 5-6 meters

Are the settings from the app persistent?
* The settings are not persisted in memory, but since the app is flashed to the Crazyflie, and runs at startup, the settings will be set everytime it starts.

Can you estimate how many crazyfly can be used with one radio?
* The number of Crazyflies that can be used with one radio depends on how much data that have to be transmitted. More data / Crazyflie == fewer Crazyflies / radio. It is hard to give exact numbers but if you use a lot of logging and sending data the number will probably be less than 5. In Crazyswarm (with heavy optimization of cummunication) they handle 16 Crazyflies / radio

HL commander doesnt need position data from the computer? once it does its thing?
* In this example the HL commander uses a trajectory that is uploaded by the script. When started it continuously calculates set points for the controller based on that trajectory. Obviously the Crazyflie must know where it is for this to work, but pretty much any positioning system works but we use Lighthouse today

So it checks position in a few intervals instead of constantly?
* The trajectory is defined as a number of polynomials for position, velocity, acceleration and jerk

So it needs less control data.. but does get position?
* Yes, so setpotins are calculated all the time. It is also possible to use go_to commands in the high level commander. In this scenario it creates a trajectory from the current position to the destination that is then traced.

Is it possible to run this code without wireless charger?
* You would have to modify it slightly since there is a check in the state machine to make sure it charges after landing, but apart from that it should work

Have you tried continuously running this demo in a loop in order to find how long it could be repeated automatically?
* We have used this demo on ICRA and IROS and were pretty much running it 8 hours/day. We had to pick up a crashed CF from time to time but it runs really well!

In HL commander there would maybe be room for a crash-preventer?
* We have discussed running something like this as a part of our CI server to make sure the firmware actually can fly after a commit, but have not got around to do it yet. Yes it would be nice with crash prevention, but it assumes accurate positioning. Sometimes the positioning system adds errors and this is hard to handle


-----
## Demo
This section describes the demo we are running at tutorial with links to required
source code to reproduce it.

We wanted to create a demo that is as fully automated as possible. We have 8
Crazyflie 2.1 with Lighthouse and Qi charger decks, each with a charging pad.
A computer will orchestrate the Crazyflies and make sure one is flying at all
times while the others re-charge their batteries on their pads.
After a pre-programmed trajectory is finished or when the battery of the flying
Crazyflie is depleted it goes back to its pad while another one takes over.

{% youtube uBnngvfUV6o; medium; 16by9 %}

We use a computer for orchestration (we call it the Control tower) that controls
when the Crazyflies take off. The communication between the computer and the
Crazyflies is handled by a Crazyradio. When a Crazyflie has started, it runs its
trajectory a fixed number of times or until it is low on battery. Basic state data is
continuously transmitted from the quadrotors to the Control tower.

### The Crazyflie firmware

The Crazyflies are fairly automated and are mainly controlled by simple commands
from the control tower. The demo app implements a state machine where most state
transitions are automatic, while a few require input from the control tower.

#### Initialization

When a Crazyflie is booted, it performs the normal initialization tests and
waits for the positioning system to find its position. When it has position
lock it is ready for action.

#### Taking off

When it is time to fly, the control tower asks a Crazyflie to take off. At this
point the Crazyflie records its current position (for landing purposes), takes
off and hovers above the charging pad. It is now ready to fly.

#### Flying

The Control tower sends a start signal to the Crazyflie which then goes to the
first coordinate of the pre-programmed trajectory. When at the starting point
it runs the pre-programmed trajectory, a set number of times.

#### Out of battery and landing

When the trajectory has been repeated the set number of times, the battery is low,
or if the Control tower sends a landing command, the
Crazyflie finishes the current trajectory and when it reaches the end, it uses
the coordinate that was recorded at lake off, to find its way home. It hovers
above the charging pad a few seconds to stabilize the position before it lands.

When landed it verifies that it is on the charging pad and that the battery is
actually charging. If not, it will take off again and repeat the landing procedure.

#### Crash detection

The Situation awareness sub system is used to detect if the Crazyflie has crashed.
If this is the case, the motors are stopped and the state machine is moved to
a permanent crash state, awaiting human help.

#### The trajectory

The trajectory is pre-programed and hard coded in the app. It is handled by
the High level commander that uses the Mellinger controller for control.

The trajectory is designed as a downwards spiral with a return path up in the
center. It makes it possible to fly multiple (at least up to 4) Crazyflies at
the same time at different phases of the trajectory, without colliding or getting
into the down wash of another quadrotor.

The timing of the trajectory is good enough to start multiple Crazyflies and
keep them running without any further adjustments.

{% img Spiral trajectory; medium; /images/events/icra2019/spiral.jpeg %}

### The control tower

The Control tower is responsible for starting Crazyflies at the correct moment.
In normal operation one Crazyfly is flying all the time and with 7 Crazyflies
charging it is possible to maintain continuous operation.

It is possible to run the Control tower with more than one quadrotor active
simultaneously, when it tries to slot them in equally spaced in the trajectory.
It (sort of) works with up to 4 Crazyflies at the same time, but the risk of
failure increases with the number of copters (which makes it more fun!).

There is also a synchronous mode where multiple Crazyflies are started side by
side to fly the trajectory in parallel. This mode does not support live replacements
when the batteries are out though.

#### Implementation

The Control tower is implemented in python using the Crazyflie python lib.
It is based on a main control loop that evaluates the current situation in every
iteration and takes appropriate action based on the state of the available
quadrotors.

Each Crazyflie is monitored and controlled by a Controller that runs in its own
thread. The most basic functionality is to keep the connection with the Crazyflie
alive and reconnect when needed. When connected, logging is set up for the current
state in the remote state machine, battery level as well as the current progress
in the trajectory. The Controllers also have functions for sending commands to
the Crazyflies.

The main loop queries the Controllers of the current state to determine if any
action is needed. Basically it checks if the correct number of Crazyflies are flying.
If not it will prepare the required number of Crazyflies by sending the take off
command and eventually slot them in the flight pattern at the appropriate time.
Only Crazyflies with a charged battery are taken into consideration for flight.

The control tower does not store an internal state, other than what it receives
from the Crazyflies through the logging sub system. This makes it very robust and
it can be restarted at any time without any further implications. This is also
true for the Crazyflies that can be restarted at any time.

### Products used in the demo

The following products were used in the demo, they are available for purchase in
[our store](https://store.bitcraze.io/).

#### The Crazyflie 2.1

The [Crazyflie 2.1](//store.bitcraze.io/collections/kits/products/crazyflie-2-1)
is a small, flexible quadrotor, suitable for research and education. The small
size and light weight makes it safe and robust if crashing, while the open source
software opens up the possibility to modify or examine any part of the functionality.

{% img Crazyflie 2.1; narrow; /images/crazyflie2-1/crazyflie_2.1_585px.jpg %}

#### The Lighthouse positioning system

The [Lighthouse positioning system](https://store.bitcraze.io/collections/decks/products/lighthouse-positioning-deck)
is based on the Valve Lighthouse base stations,
used in the HTC Vive Virtual Reality gaming kit. It has very high precision and
accuracy to an affordable price, making it possible to use in any office or
class room. The position is estimated in the Crazyflie quadrotor which makes the system
robust and easy to use.

{% img Lighthouse deck; narrow; /images/lighthouse-deck/lighthouse_deck_585px.jpg %}

#### The Qi 1.2 wireless charging deck

The [Qi 1.2 wireless charging deck](https://store.bitcraze.io/collections/decks/products/qi-1-2-wireless-charging-deck)
uses the same standard as mobile phones which
makes it easy to find a compatible charger.

{% img Qi 1.2 charger deck; narrow; /images/qi-charger/qi-charger-deck-585px.jpg %}

#### The Crazyradio PA

The [Crazyradio PA](https://store.bitcraze.io/collections/kits/products/crazyradio-pa)
is a USB dongle radio that is used to communicate with the Crazyflie.
It supports up to 800 packets/s to multiple Crazyflies simultaneously.

{% img Crazyradio PA; narrow; /images/crazyradio-pa/Radio-PA-585px.JPG %}

#### The charging pad

The charging pads are based on the wireless charger "NORDMÄRKE" from [IKEA](https://www.ikea.com/)
with a 3D-printed pad. The FreeCad and stl files for the pad are available on GitHub in
[Landing_pad_rallen_v5.fcstd](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-mechanics/blob/master/models/Landing_pad_rallen_v5.fcstd) and
[Landing_pad_v5.stl](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-mechanics/blob/master/models/Landing_pad_v5.stl).

{% img Charging pad; narrow; /images/events/icra2019/chargingpad.jpg %}

### The source code

The source code for the demo is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware) under the folder example/demo/swarm_demo.
Most of the functionality in the firmware is implemented in [app.c](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/examples/demos/swarm_demo/app.c) and
the Control tower is implemented in [control_tower.py](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/examples/demos/swarm_demo/control_tower/control_tower.py).

More information and how to setup the [lighthouse positioning system](/documentation/repository/crazyflie-firmware/master/functional-areas/lighthouse/).

Commit message:

Changed links to products. They used to point at the store but are now pointing at the product pages on the web or using product pop-links instead.

src/about/events/bct12020.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Bitcraze Tutorial 1 - 2020
page_id: bct-1-2020
---

This page describes the first online live Bitcraze tutorial session were we have explained the lighthouse spiraling swarm demo we have been showing and multiple conferences in the last few years. Here we will mostly focus on the lighthouse positioning system, high level commander and the App layer.

**Registration is closed**
-----
## Tutorial information

<div class="video-no-controls">
<video autobuffer controls autoplay muted loop>
  <source src="/videos/lh2_sweeps.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
</div>

Here you will find the information about the tutorial itself.

### Schedule

Date: __4th of November 2020__

Start time: __18:00 CET__ (Malmö Sweden)

Place: Online on __Discord__ and __Mozilla hubs__

Schedule:
* 17:45 - 18:00: Walk in (especially for Mozilla hubs)
* 18:00 - 18:35: Tutorial part 1 - Lighthouse positioning
* 18:35 - 18:45: Questions
* 18:45 - 19:00: Break
* 19:00 - 19:35: Tutorial part 2 - Swarm Autonomy
* 19:35 - 19:45: Questions
* 19:45 - - - - - : Socializing

### Topics

For the tutorial we will assume that you already know the Crazyflie and have done some development for it in some way, so the introduction to our ecosystem will be very brief.

There are two main parts of the tutorial:
* Lighthouse v2. We will explain how to setup the lighthouse v2 with the theory of how it works, and eventually fly with it with one crazyflie.
* Swarm Autonomy. Here we will explain communication with the swarm and how to move more autonomy into the Crazyflie (very important for flying with swarms). High-level commander and the App layer will be explained here. After this the full demo can be shown.

### Location

* __Starting point__: On the day of the event we will send you an email with an invite to our_Discord_ server, which is the virtual starting portal to our tutorial. So make sure that you have a discord account already.
* __Discord__: In Discord, there will be one channel for the video stream of the tutorial, and one channel for chat and question.
* __Mozilla hubs__: In the discord channel for chat there also be the link to the _mozilla hubs room_.
* __Limitation__: There is no limitation on how many people can join the streaming discord channel. There is going to be a limit on how many people can join mozilla hubs. We will reduce this to _20-30 people_ due to of the environment getting slow. We will indicate how the progress is going during the event but everybody who already indicated that they will join mozilla hubs have priority obviously.

### Socializing

During the break and after the tutorial we can answer questions that are still remaining. We would prefer if they could be limited to the topics that we cover in the tutorial to also give us Bitcrazers some time to socialize with you guys in either mozilla hubs or discord :) That is something that we also really miss from not going to conferences so we are looking forward to meeting you all!

### Slides and Presentation

After the event, we will post the slides we used here and a link to the recordings of the tutorial.

* The slides of the event can be found [here](documents/tutorial_demo_presentation.pdf)




{% youtube K1qmc8K3RUA; medium; 16by9 %}

{% youtube LG7_gyhrPqE; medium; 16by9 %}



### Questions and Answers
What are the main differences bitween the Loco positioning and the Lighthouse?
* Loco positioning is using UWB and Lighthouse laser sweeps [https://www.bitcraze.io/documentation/system/positioning/](/documentation/system/positioning/)

You said V2 doesn't use all the calibration values (yet). Does it mean you can get a better accuracy with V1 for the moment?
* I don't have any numbers for accuracy for V1 and V2, but they are probably fairly similar. The geometry of V2 makes it more sensitive to errors though

How much space can we cover compared to V1?
* Lighthouse is not limited to 2 base stations (as opposed to V1)

Could you please provide some links for v1 calibration
* Lighthouse V1 calibration [https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/src/utils/src/lighthouse/lighthouse_calibration.c#L126-L136](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/src/utils/src/lighthouse/lighthouse_calibration.c#L126-L136). We have not yet documented how to read/write calib data yet, but it can be done from the app layer in the Crazyflie.

What is the functional range of lighthouse ?
* The range of a lighthouse 2 base station is 5-6 meters

Are the settings from the app persistent?
* The settings are not persisted in memory, but since the app is flashed to the Crazyflie, and runs at startup, the settings will be set everytime it starts.

Can you estimate how many crazyfly can be used with one radio?
* The number of Crazyflies that can be used with one radio depends on how much data that have to be transmitted. More data / Crazyflie == fewer Crazyflies / radio. It is hard to give exact numbers but if you use a lot of logging and sending data the number will probably be less than 5. In Crazyswarm (with heavy optimization of cummunication) they handle 16 Crazyflies / radio

HL commander doesnt need position data from the computer? once it does its thing?
* In this example the HL commander uses a trajectory that is uploaded by the script. When started it continuously calculates set points for the controller based on that trajectory. Obviously the Crazyflie must know where it is for this to work, but pretty much any positioning system works but we use Lighthouse today

So it checks position in a few intervals instead of constantly?
* The trajectory is defined as a number of polynomials for position, velocity, acceleration and jerk

So it needs less control data.. but does get position?
* Yes, so setpotins are calculated all the time. It is also possible to use go_to commands in the high level commander. In this scenario it creates a trajectory from the current position to the destination that is then traced.

Is it possible to run this code without wireless charger?
* You would have to modify it slightly since there is a check in the state machine to make sure it charges after landing, but apart from that it should work

Have you tried continuously running this demo in a loop in order to find how long it could be repeated automatically?
* We have used this demo on ICRA and IROS and were pretty much running it 8 hours/day. We had to pick up a crashed CF from time to time but it runs really well!

In HL commander there would maybe be room for a crash-preventer?
* We have discussed running something like this as a part of our CI server to make sure the firmware actually can fly after a commit, but have not got around to do it yet. Yes it would be nice with crash prevention, but it assumes accurate positioning. Sometimes the positioning system adds errors and this is hard to handle


-----
## Demo
This section describes the demo we are running at tutorial with links to required
source code to reproduce it.

We wanted to create a demo that is as fully automated as possible. We have 8
Crazyflie 2.1 with Lighthouse and Qi charger decks, each with a charging pad.
A computer will orchestrate the Crazyflies and make sure one is flying at all
times while the others re-charge their batteries on their pads.
After a pre-programmed trajectory is finished or when the battery of the flying
Crazyflie is depleted it goes back to its pad while another one takes over.

{% youtube uBnngvfUV6o; medium; 16by9 %}

We use a computer for orchestration (we call it the Control tower) that controls
when the Crazyflies take off. The communication between the computer and the
Crazyflies is handled by a Crazyradio. When a Crazyflie has started, it runs its
trajectory a fixed number of times or until it is low on battery. Basic state data is
continuously transmitted from the quadrotors to the Control tower.

### The Crazyflie firmware

The Crazyflies are fairly automated and are mainly controlled by simple commands
from the control tower. The demo app implements a state machine where most state
transitions are automatic, while a few require input from the control tower.

#### Initialization

When a Crazyflie is booted, it performs the normal initialization tests and
waits for the positioning system to find its position. When it has position
lock it is ready for action.

#### Taking off

When it is time to fly, the control tower asks a Crazyflie to take off. At this
point the Crazyflie records its current position (for landing purposes), takes
off and hovers above the charging pad. It is now ready to fly.

#### Flying

The Control tower sends a start signal to the Crazyflie which then goes to the
first coordinate of the pre-programmed trajectory. When at the starting point
it runs the pre-programmed trajectory, a set number of times.

#### Out of battery and landing

When the trajectory has been repeated the set number of times, the battery is low,
or if the Control tower sends a landing command, the
Crazyflie finishes the current trajectory and when it reaches the end, it uses
the coordinate that was recorded at lake off, to find its way home. It hovers
above the charging pad a few seconds to stabilize the position before it lands.

When landed it verifies that it is on the charging pad and that the battery is
actually charging. If not, it will take off again and repeat the landing procedure.

#### Crash detection

The Situation awareness sub system is used to detect if the Crazyflie has crashed.
If this is the case, the motors are stopped and the state machine is moved to
a permanent crash state, awaiting human help.

#### The trajectory

The trajectory is pre-programed and hard coded in the app. It is handled by
the High level commander that uses the Mellinger controller for control.

The trajectory is designed as a downwards spiral with a return path up in the
center. It makes it possible to fly multiple (at least up to 4) Crazyflies at
the same time at different phases of the trajectory, without colliding or getting
into the down wash of another quadrotor.

The timing of the trajectory is good enough to start multiple Crazyflies and
keep them running without any further adjustments.

{% img Spiral trajectory; medium; /images/events/icra2019/spiral.jpeg %}

### The control tower

The Control tower is responsible for starting Crazyflies at the correct moment.
In normal operation one Crazyfly is flying all the time and with 7 Crazyflies
charging it is possible to maintain continuous operation.

It is possible to run the Control tower with more than one quadrotor active
simultaneously, when it tries to slot them in equally spaced in the trajectory.
It (sort of) works with up to 4 Crazyflies at the same time, but the risk of
failure increases with the number of copters (which makes it more fun!).

There is also a synchronous mode where multiple Crazyflies are started side by
side to fly the trajectory in parallel. This mode does not support live replacements
when the batteries are out though.

#### Implementation

The Control tower is implemented in python using the Crazyflie python lib.
It is based on a main control loop that evaluates the current situation in every
iteration and takes appropriate action based on the state of the available
quadrotors.

Each Crazyflie is monitored and controlled by a Controller that runs in its own
thread. The most basic functionality is to keep the connection with the Crazyflie
alive and reconnect when needed. When connected, logging is set up for the current
state in the remote state machine, battery level as well as the current progress
in the trajectory. The Controllers also have functions for sending commands to
the Crazyflies.

The main loop queries the Controllers of the current state to determine if any
action is needed. Basically it checks if the correct number of Crazyflies are flying.
If not it will prepare the required number of Crazyflies by sending the take off
command and eventually slot them in the flight pattern at the appropriate time.
Only Crazyflies with a charged battery are taken into consideration for flight.

The control tower does not store an internal state, other than what it receives
from the Crazyflies through the logging sub system. This makes it very robust and
it can be restarted at any time without any further implications. This is also
true for the Crazyflies that can be restarted at any time.

### Products used in the demo

The following products were used in the demo, they are available for purchase in
[our store](https://store.bitcraze.io/).

#### The Crazyflie 2.1

The {% id_link product-crazyflie-2-1 %}
is a small, flexible quadrotor, suitable for research and education. The small
size and light weight makes it safe and robust if crashing, while the open source
software opens up the possibility to modify or examine any part of the functionality.

{% img Crazyflie 2.1; narrow; /images/crazyflie2-1/crazyflie_2.1_585px.jpg %}

#### The Lighthouse positioning system

The {% id_link lighthouse-system-overview %}
is based on the Valve Lighthouse base stations,
used in the HTC Vive Virtual Reality gaming kit. It has very high precision and
accuracy to an affordable price, making it possible to use in any office or
class room. The position is estimated in the Crazyflie quadrotor which makes the system
robust and easy to use.

{% img Lighthouse deck; narrow; /images/lighthouse-deck/lighthouse_deck_585px.jpg %}

#### The Qi 1.2 wireless charging deck

The {% poplink qi-1-2-wireless-charging-deck %}
uses the same standard as mobile phones which
makes it easy to find a compatible charger.

{% img Qi 1.2 charger deck; narrow; /images/qi-charger/qi-charger-deck-585px.jpg %}

#### The Crazyradio PA

The {% id_link product-crazyradio-pa %}
is a USB dongle radio that is used to communicate with the Crazyflie.
It supports up to 800 packets/s to multiple Crazyflies simultaneously.

{% img Crazyradio PA; narrow; /images/crazyradio-pa/Radio-PA-585px.JPG %}

#### The charging pad

The charging pads are based on the wireless charger "NORDMÄRKE" from [IKEA](https://www.ikea.com/)
with a 3D-printed pad. The FreeCad and stl files for the pad are available on GitHub in
[Landing_pad_rallen_v5.fcstd](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-mechanics/blob/master/models/Landing_pad_rallen_v5.fcstd) and
[Landing_pad_v5.stl](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-mechanics/blob/master/models/Landing_pad_v5.stl).

{% img Charging pad; narrow; /images/events/icra2019/chargingpad.jpg %}

### The source code

The source code for the demo is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware) under the folder example/demo/swarm_demo.
Most of the functionality in the firmware is implemented in [app.c](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/examples/demos/swarm_demo/app.c) and
the Control tower is implemented in [control_tower.py](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware/blob/master/examples/demos/swarm_demo/control_tower/control_tower.py).

More information and how to setup the [lighthouse positioning system](/documentation/repository/crazyflie-firmware/master/functional-areas/lighthouse/).
