src/documentation/start.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Start here
page_id: getting-started-start
redirects:
  - /start/
---
{% img Crazyflie on boxes; wide; /images/documentation/landing_page/crazyflie_boxes.png %}



## Let's get started!

If you just bought a Crazyflie 2.x and  a good way to start is to head over to the
getting started guide, to see how to assemble the kit and take off for your first flight.

{% inline_button Getting Started with Crazyflie Tutorial; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyflie-2-x/ %}

If you have just gotten a new Crazyradio 2.0, here are some instructions to get it ready for usage.

{% inline_button Getting Started with Crazyradio 2.0 Tutorial; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyradio-2-0/ %}

If you want to add one of our many expansion decks to the Crazyflie 2.x and need help getting started we have made a Expansion decks tutorial.

 {% inline_button Getting Started with Expansion decks tutorial; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-expansion-decks/ %}

Just bought our Loco positioning system or Lighthouse positioning system? Go to the positioning system page
 for more information and how to setup the system.

 {% inline_button Positioning Systems page; /documentation/system/positioning/ %}



To understand the Crazyflie EcoSystem, look at our system overview documentation

 {% inline_button Eco-System overview; /documentation/system/
 %}

 We have collected all getting started guides in the Tutorials menu, this is the
place to look for instructions.

 {% inline_button All tutorials; /documentation/tutorials/
 %}



## Development

When you are comfortable flying the Crazyflie you might feel that it is time for
the next step, to make use of the flexibility of the platform. After all it is
designed to be modified! Check out the {% id_link getting-started-development %}
tutorial to setup your development environment, build your first custom firmware and
download it to the Crazyflie.

{% inline_button Getting started with development; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-development/ %}

All the source code is hosted on [github.com/bitcraze](https://github.com/bitcraze)
and this is also where you will the source of documentation related to each repository. Please checkout the repository overview page:

{% inline_button Repository overview page; /documentation/repository/ %}

Maybe you want to add a sensor or some other hardware? Heat up your soldering
iron and dive into it! Find more information about the expansion bus on the expansion decks of the Crazyflie 2.x.


{% inline_button Expansion Decks Page; /documentation/system/platform/cf2-expansiondecks/ %}

## Projects

Looking for inspiration for a new project? Take a look at our [blog posts](/blog/). The {% id_link videogallery %} contains
some really cool stuff as well as our [You Tube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/BitcrazeVideos). We also have a [list of academic groups](/portals/research/) that have used the Crazyflie in their research.

{% inline_button Video Gallery; /documentation/video-gallery/ %}

## Contribute!

Open source is about sharing, creating something awesome together and contribute
to the greater good! It is easy, fun and anyone can do it, read more about how to contribute!

 {% inline_button How to contribute ?; /development/contribute/ %}

## Need help?

Can’t find the solution to a problem? Don't understand how or what to do?
Have you read all documentation and are still confused?

{% inline_button How to get help?; /support/getting-help/ %}

You can also go directly to our [discussions](https://discussions.bitcraze.io/)!

### Happy hacking!

Commit message:

Add Brushless to the start here

src/documentation/start.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Start here
page_id: getting-started-start
redirects:
  - /start/
---
{% img Crazyflie on boxes; wide; /images/documentation/landing_page/crazyflie_boxes.png %}



## Let's get started!

If you just bought a Crazyflie 2.1 or Crazyflie 2.1 Brushless and a good way to start is to head over to the
getting started guide, to see how to assemble the kit and take off for your first flight.

{% inline_button Getting Started with Crazyflie Tutorial; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyflie-2-x/ %}

{% inline_button Getting Started with Crazyflie 2.1 Brushless Tutorial; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyflie-brushless/ %}

If you have just gotten a new Crazyradio 2.0, here are some instructions to get it ready for usage.

{% inline_button Getting Started with Crazyradio 2.0 Tutorial; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyradio-2-0/ %}

If you want to add one of our many expansion decks to the Crazyflie 2.x and need help getting started we have made a Expansion decks tutorial.

 {% inline_button Getting Started with Expansion decks tutorial; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-expansion-decks/ %}

Just bought our Loco positioning system or Lighthouse positioning system? Go to the positioning system page
 for more information and how to setup the system.

 {% inline_button Positioning Systems page; /documentation/system/positioning/ %}



To understand the Crazyflie EcoSystem, look at our system overview documentation

 {% inline_button Eco-System overview; /documentation/system/
 %}

 We have collected all getting started guides in the Tutorials menu, this is the
place to look for instructions.

 {% inline_button All tutorials; /documentation/tutorials/
 %}



## Development

When you are comfortable flying the Crazyflie you might feel that it is time for
the next step, to make use of the flexibility of the platform. After all it is
designed to be modified! Check out the {% id_link getting-started-development %}
tutorial to setup your development environment, build your first custom firmware and
download it to the Crazyflie.

{% inline_button Getting started with development; /documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-development/ %}

All the source code is hosted on [github.com/bitcraze](https://github.com/bitcraze)
and this is also where you will the source of documentation related to each repository. Please checkout the repository overview page:

{% inline_button Repository overview page; /documentation/repository/ %}

Maybe you want to add a sensor or some other hardware? Heat up your soldering
iron and dive into it! Find more information about the expansion bus on the expansion decks of the Crazyflie 2.x.


{% inline_button Expansion Decks Page; /documentation/system/platform/cf2-expansiondecks/ %}

## Projects

Looking for inspiration for a new project? Take a look at our [blog posts](/blog/). The {% id_link videogallery %} contains
some really cool stuff as well as our [You Tube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/BitcrazeVideos). We also have a [list of academic groups](/portals/research/) that have used the Crazyflie in their research.

{% inline_button Video Gallery; /documentation/video-gallery/ %}

## Contribute!

Open source is about sharing, creating something awesome together and contribute
to the greater good! It is easy, fun and anyone can do it, read more about how to contribute!

 {% inline_button How to contribute ?; /development/contribute/ %}

## Need help?

Can’t find the solution to a problem? Don't understand how or what to do?
Have you read all documentation and are still confused?

{% inline_button How to get help?; /support/getting-help/ %}

You can also go directly to our [discussions](https://discussions.bitcraze.io/)!

### Happy hacking!
