src/documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyflie-1-0.md, before:

---
layout: page-left-menu
title: Getting started with the Crazyflie 1.0
page_id: getting-started-crazyflie
redirects:
  - /getting-started-with-the-crazyflie/
---

{% si_intro Crazyflie assembly %}
The Crazyflie is sold as a kit, it requires some assembly and soldering.
There is  a video describing the assembly steps:

{% youtube KeqiUPIDpV8; medium; 16by9 %}
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_intro Required hardware %}
Once assembled you will need a computer, a gamepad and the Crazyradio dongle to fly the Crazyflie.

Any gamepad with at least four axes will work. The following gamepads are supported out of the box:

* PS3 USB controller (Tricky for windows, works on Linux, Mac and the Bitcraze virtual machine).
* PS4 USB controller
* XBox 360 USB controller

Other gamepads can be configured in the Crazyflie client software.

The Crazyradio dongle shall also be connected to the computer. The documentation
contains the [Windows driver installation instructions](/documentation/repository/crazyradio-firmware/master/building/usbwindows/).
Mac and Linux does not require drivers but Linux requires
[some configuration](/documentation/repository/crazyflie-lib-python/master/installation/usb_permissions/).
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_intro Installing software %}
The Crazyflie is controlled using a software named Crazyflie PC client
(cfclient in short). There are two possibilities to fly the Crazyflie: Either
running the software directly on your machine or using our virtual machine.

* If you want to develop for the Crazyflie or if you do not want to install software and drivers directly on your computer the Bitcraze virtual machine is the way to go
* Otherwise installing it directly on the computer is lighter to download and use.
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_step Windows %}
The windows installer can be downloaded from
[GitHub](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-clients-python/releases)
It installs the Crazyflie PC client. The Crazyradio USB dongle driver has to be
[installed independently](/documentation/repository/crazyradio-firmware/master/building/usbwindows/).
{% endsi_step %}


{% si_step Linux and Mac %}
Instruction for Linux and Mac can be found in the Crazyflie client
[readme](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-clients-python/blob/master/README.md)
file. The package for Linux and Mac can be downloaded from
[GitHub](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-clients-python/releases)
{% endsi_step %}


{% si_step Using the virtual machine %}
We provide a virtual machine running a Linux distribution pre-installed with
all the software required to use the Crazyflie but also to develop with it. The
virtual machine download link can be found on the
[virtual machine release download page](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-vm/releases/).

The virtual machine comes as a standard OVA file which means that it can run
with many virtualization applications. However it has been setup and mostly tested
on VirtualBox. You can
[donwnload VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
for you computer, install it and then double-click on the Bitcraze virtual
machine to start using it.

When the virtual machine is started, the Crazyradio and your gamepad should be
connected to it:

{% img bitcraze vm setup; wide; /images/getting-started/bitcraze_vm_setup-1024x684.jpg %}
{% endsi_step %}



{% si_intro Flying %}
Now you should have the client launched, the gamepad and the Crazyradio
plugged in and working.

* In the "Input device" menu select the gamepad and the mapping. Check by moving the axes that the Thrust, Pitch, Roll and Yaw fields are showing meaningful values.
* You can verify in Help/About/Debug that the Crazyradio is recognized. It should show something like: "radio: Crazyradio version 0.52"

Switch the Crazyflie ON and put it on a stable surface (it needs to calibrate
its sensors). In the client, click connect and select your Crazyflie in the
list (should look like "radio://0/42/2M") and finally click connect. The
Crazyflie is now ready to fly!
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_intro More information %}
The main sources of information for the Crazyflie are the documentation and the forum.
The dpcumentation on the web is open to contribution, which is accessible with a github account. The forum
is the first line of support and you can register online to it.

{% endsi_intro %}

Commit message:

replace forum links with discussion links

src/documentation/tutorials/getting-started-with-crazyflie-1-0.md, after:

---
layout: page-left-menu
title: Getting started with the Crazyflie 1.0
page_id: getting-started-crazyflie
redirects:
  - /getting-started-with-the-crazyflie/
---

{% si_intro Crazyflie assembly %}
The Crazyflie is sold as a kit, it requires some assembly and soldering.
There is  a video describing the assembly steps:

{% youtube KeqiUPIDpV8; medium; 16by9 %}
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_intro Required hardware %}
Once assembled you will need a computer, a gamepad and the Crazyradio dongle to fly the Crazyflie.

Any gamepad with at least four axes will work. The following gamepads are supported out of the box:

* PS3 USB controller (Tricky for windows, works on Linux, Mac and the Bitcraze virtual machine).
* PS4 USB controller
* XBox 360 USB controller

Other gamepads can be configured in the Crazyflie client software.

The Crazyradio dongle shall also be connected to the computer. The documentation
contains the [Windows driver installation instructions](/documentation/repository/crazyradio-firmware/master/building/usbwindows/).
Mac and Linux does not require drivers but Linux requires
[some configuration](/documentation/repository/crazyflie-lib-python/master/installation/usb_permissions/).
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_intro Installing software %}
The Crazyflie is controlled using a software named Crazyflie PC client
(cfclient in short). There are two possibilities to fly the Crazyflie: Either
running the software directly on your machine or using our virtual machine.

* If you want to develop for the Crazyflie or if you do not want to install software and drivers directly on your computer the Bitcraze virtual machine is the way to go
* Otherwise installing it directly on the computer is lighter to download and use.
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_step Windows %}
The windows installer can be downloaded from
[GitHub](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-clients-python/releases)
It installs the Crazyflie PC client. The Crazyradio USB dongle driver has to be
[installed independently](/documentation/repository/crazyradio-firmware/master/building/usbwindows/).
{% endsi_step %}


{% si_step Linux and Mac %}
Instruction for Linux and Mac can be found in the Crazyflie client
[readme](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-clients-python/blob/master/README.md)
file. The package for Linux and Mac can be downloaded from
[GitHub](https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-clients-python/releases)
{% endsi_step %}


{% si_step Using the virtual machine %}
We provide a virtual machine running a Linux distribution pre-installed with
all the software required to use the Crazyflie but also to develop with it. The
virtual machine download link can be found on the
[virtual machine release download page](https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-vm/releases/).

The virtual machine comes as a standard OVA file which means that it can run
with many virtualization applications. However it has been setup and mostly tested
on VirtualBox. You can
[donwnload VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
for you computer, install it and then double-click on the Bitcraze virtual
machine to start using it.

When the virtual machine is started, the Crazyradio and your gamepad should be
connected to it:

{% img bitcraze vm setup; wide; /images/getting-started/bitcraze_vm_setup-1024x684.jpg %}
{% endsi_step %}



{% si_intro Flying %}
Now you should have the client launched, the gamepad and the Crazyradio
plugged in and working.

* In the "Input device" menu select the gamepad and the mapping. Check by moving the axes that the Thrust, Pitch, Roll and Yaw fields are showing meaningful values.
* You can verify in Help/About/Debug that the Crazyradio is recognized. It should show something like: "radio: Crazyradio version 0.52"

Switch the Crazyflie ON and put it on a stable surface (it needs to calibrate
its sensors). In the client, click connect and select your Crazyflie in the
list (should look like "radio://0/42/2M") and finally click connect. The
Crazyflie is now ready to fly!
{% endsi_intro %}


{% si_intro More information %}
The main sources of information for the Crazyflie are the documentation and the discussion page.
The documentation on the web is open to contribution, which is accessible with a github account. The discussion page is also accessible with a github account.

{% endsi_intro %}
