src/about/jobs.md, before:

---
layout: page-left-menu
title: Jobs
page_id: jobs
redirects:
  - /jobs/
---

## We're hiring!

If you are interested in joining the Bitcraze awesomeness, this is the page for you.

## Open Roles

### Developer - hardware and product development

As an employee of Bitcraze, you will belong to a team where there are no roles set in stone and where everyone is committed to the company's development and contributes with their expertise. Responsibilities and frameworks exist, but here there are also all the possibilities for you to develop together with the company which plan to grow in the near future with a few more employees.
As it is a smaller team, you will have the opportunity to be involved in all parts but your main duties will be linked to production and quality work and development (embedded systems).

#### Your role
In addition to development, approximately 30% of the role will involve:
- Run, synchronize, and follow up production and production tests in China.
- Review the development opportunities around logistics.
- Follow up and be responsible for quality assurance; read out test results from production tests
and ensure quality standards are met.
-Drive and develop methods for production tests together with production in China.

#### You as a person

we are now looking for someone who is passionate about technology, production and quality assurance, and who would think it would be cool to develop world-leading drones
on the market. 
Basically, you are a university or civil engineer, and have a few years of experience in:
- hardware development, 
- Python, 
- C, 
and otherwise good ability to learn new programming languages. 

As a larger part of the work focuses on driving and following up production in China, it's good if you have experience in electronics production, maybe production of smaller volumes, quality assurance and/or production tests.
If you have mechatronics, electronics or mechanic experience, this is very meritorious. Furthermore, you speak and write Swedish and English fluently. Due to visa and work permit administration, it’s best if you have EU citizenship. 

As a person, you have high social skills and have the ability to meet people from different background cultures. You are a prestigeless team player who has a strong sense of responsibility
and drive things to the finish line. You are a passionate problem-solver who possesses a great deal of your own drive - which takes hold of the problems you face. You appreciate the small 
entrepreneurial company with all that it entails, and understand the importance of commitment
and of delivering quality.

### Application process
In this recruitment, Bitcraze collaborates with Tech Talents. Questions and applications will be
answered and processed by the recruiter in charge Therese Bengtsson at
therese.bengtsson@techtalents.se.
Selection and interviews will take place continuously, but the position may be filled
before the application deadline, so don't hesitate to apply today.
You’re welcome to apply!

Company: Bitcraze AB
Location: Malmö
Application deadline: 2023-10-31

Contact person: Therese Bengtsson
therese.bengtsson@techtalents.se


---
## Open application
If any of the [areas we work with](#areas-we-work-with) we work with seem appealing to you, we are always available for open applications as well which we can consider.

### About Bitcraze

Important to note is that we are not like most other companies.
We don't have any titles or fixed roles, in fact we are completely
self organized and we do not have any managers. In our universe the success of
the team is more important than personal gain, we do not blame - we help. We are
continuously building the company we want to work in, and base it on the idea that
no one in the company can tell anyone else what to do. This might sound a bit
unusual but the truth is that we have a way of working (some might call it a
process) that is pretty elaborate and detailed and that solves our daily
problems, but never hinders us. After all, the reality is more important than the plan.

### Location
We are located in Malmö, Sweden. Even though there are a lot of really good
on-line collaboration tools, we prefer human contact and we are not interested in remote
work solutions. You will have to be prepared to move to Malmö.

Unfortunately we do not have the capacity to handle applications from outside
the EU due to visa and work permit administration.

### Language
We use English in our everyday work.

## Areas we work with

We have tried to collect an overview of all the tasks we work with at Bitcraze in this section. As an employee you will
probably work on several of these areas from time to time, we are a small company and we are all ready to help out where needed.

#### Technical support
Answer questions and help members of the community through emails, the discussions,
GitHub issues, the store and other communication channels. Questions range from
basic tech support such as how to install the client, to detailed and
complex issues.

#### Product development
Create future products, hardware and software as well as improve current
products. We make a lot of prototypes to try new ideas out, most of
them never reach the outside world though. We also add to and improve the codebase
of the all the software we have, firmware, python libs and clients.

#### The shop, stock management and logistics
We have our own E-store and use a 3PL service for warehousing and fulfillment
of orders. There's always things to do here and it
ranges from pre-sales support and quotes to missing packages and delays or finding
a better payment gateway etc. Most of our sales have been B2C but we're moving more
and more towards B2B.

#### Production and supply chain
If there's one thing we've learned over the years is that production never just
rolls on and works. We manufacture a lot of products and we have more coming.
Making sure things are ready in time for the right price and shipped to the
right place takes a lot of work.

#### Internal and external systems
Maintaining and developing systems such as the web, discussions, build servers,
supply chain tracking tools and similar.

#### Business development, strategy and the future
Sometimes we solve detailed problems in the code but at other times we have to bring
out the wider brush and think about the bigger picture. Who are we, really?
How do we fit into the rest of the world? Why do we do what we do? How do want
to make money in the future?

#### Admin and finance
Handling receipts, salaries, rent, book keeping, audits and so on for our company.
Keeping track of sales, costs and money i general to make sure we are on top of
the situation.

#### Community and marketing
Talk to the community, make videos to show what we do, write a blog post,
redesign the web, make us look sharp. Go to a faire or exhibition
and show our products and meet people.

#### External projects and collaboration
We have a few collaborations with external partners where we design custom
solutions, hardware and software.

Commit message:

Updated job application to production coordinator

src/about/jobs.md, after:

---
layout: page-left-menu
title: Jobs
page_id: jobs
redirects:
  - /jobs/
---

## We're hiring!

If you are interested in joining the Bitcraze awesomeness, this is the page for you.

## Open Roles

### Production/QA coordinator with embedded experience

As an employee of Bitcraze, you will belong to a team where there are no roles set in stone and where everyone is committed to the company's development and contributes with their expertise. Responsibilities and frameworks exist, but here there are also all the possibilities for you to develop together with the company which plan to grow in the near future with a few more employees.
As it is a smaller team, you will have the opportunity to be involved in all parts but your main duties will be linked to production and quality work.

#### Your role
Approximately 30% of the role will involve:
- Run, synchronize, and follow up production and production tests in China.
- Review the development opportunities around logistics.
- Follow up and be responsible for quality assurance; read out test results from production tests and ensure quality standards are met.
- Drive and develop methods for production tests together with production in China.

The remaining time is more flexible and we would like you to be able to contribute to a few areas such as
- Running and continue to developing our test lab
- Coordinating potential external projects
- Strengthening our presence in China
- Driving certification
- Developing hardware
- Developing software
- Handling support

#### You as a person

We are now looking for someone who is passionate about technology, production and quality assurance, and who would think it would be cool to develop world-leading drones on the market. 
Basically, you are a university or civil engineer, and have basic knowledge in:
- Embedded products 
- Electronics 
- Programming 

As a larger part of the work focuses on driving and following up production in China, it's good if you have experience in electronics production, maybe production of smaller volumes, quality assurance and/or production tests.
If you have mechatronics, electronics or mechanic experience, this is very meritorious. Furthermore, you speak and write Swedish and English fluently. Due to visa and work permit administration, it’s best if you have EU citizenship. 

As a person, you have high social skills and have the ability to meet people from different background cultures. You are a prestigeless team player who has a strong sense of responsibility and drive things to the finish line. You are a passionate problem-solver who possesses a great deal of your own drive - which takes hold of the problems you face. You appreciate the small entrepreneurial company with all that it entails, and understand the importance of commitment and of delivering quality.

### Application process
In this recruitment, Bitcraze collaborates with Tech Talents. Questions and applications will be answered and processed by the recruiter in charge Therese Bengtsson at therese.bengtsson@techtalents.se. Selection and interviews will take place continuously, but the position may be filled before the application deadline, so don't hesitate to apply today. You’re welcome to apply!

**Company:** Bitcraze AB

**Location:** Malmö 

**Application deadline:** 2023-11-30

**Contact person:** Therese Bengtsson (therese.bengtsson@techtalents.se)

---
## Open application
If any of the [areas we work with](#areas-we-work-with) seem appealing to you, we are always available for open applications as well which we can consider.

### About Bitcraze

Important to note is that we are not like most other companies.
We don't have any titles or fixed roles, in fact we are completely
self organized and we do not have any managers. In our universe the success of
the team is more important than personal gain, we do not blame - we help. We are
continuously building the company we want to work in, and base it on the idea that
no one in the company can tell anyone else what to do. This might sound a bit
unusual but the truth is that we have a way of working (some might call it a
process) that is pretty elaborate and detailed and that solves our daily
problems, but never hinders us. After all, the reality is more important than the plan.

### Location
We are located in Malmö, Sweden. Even though there are a lot of really good
on-line collaboration tools, we prefer human contact and we are not interested in remote
work solutions. You will have to be prepared to move to Malmö.

Unfortunately we do not have the capacity to handle applications from outside
the EU due to visa and work permit administration.

### Language
We use English in our everyday work.

## Areas we work with

We have tried to collect an overview of all the tasks we work with at Bitcraze in this section. As an employee you will
probably work on several of these areas from time to time, we are a small company and we are all ready to help out where needed.

#### Technical support
Answer questions and help members of the community through emails, the discussions,
GitHub issues, the store and other communication channels. Questions range from
basic tech support such as how to install the client, to detailed and
complex issues.

#### Product development
Create future products, hardware and software as well as improve current
products. We make a lot of prototypes to try new ideas out, most of
them never reach the outside world though. We also add to and improve the codebase
of the all the software we have, firmware, python libs and clients.

#### The shop, stock management and logistics
We have our own E-store and use a 3PL service for warehousing and fulfillment
of orders. There's always things to do here and it
ranges from pre-sales support and quotes to missing packages and delays or finding
a better payment gateway etc. Most of our sales have been B2C but we're moving more
and more towards B2B.

#### Production and supply chain
If there's one thing we've learned over the years is that production never just
rolls on and works. We manufacture a lot of products and we have more coming.
Making sure things are ready in time for the right price and shipped to the
right place takes a lot of work.

#### Internal and external systems
Maintaining and developing systems such as the web, discussions, build servers,
supply chain tracking tools and similar.

#### Business development, strategy and the future
Sometimes we solve detailed problems in the code but at other times we have to bring
out the wider brush and think about the bigger picture. Who are we, really?
How do we fit into the rest of the world? Why do we do what we do? How do want
to make money in the future?

#### Admin and finance
Handling receipts, salaries, rent, book keeping, audits and so on for our company.
Keeping track of sales, costs and money i general to make sure we are on top of
the situation.

#### Community and marketing
Talk to the community, make videos to show what we do, write a blog post,
redesign the web, make us look sharp. Go to a faire or exhibition
and show our products and meet people.

#### External projects and collaboration
We have a few collaborations with external partners where we design custom
solutions, hardware and software.
