src/about/team.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Team
page_id: about-team
redirects:
  - /team/
---


{% include teammember.html member="Arnaud Taffanel" role="Developer & Co-founder" img="/images/team/arnaud_taffanel_400px.jpg" bio="
Arnaud has been passionate about technology since his childhood. He has worked in various domains from embedded electronics for medical devices to Linux system integration for mobile phones and was working as an embedded system consultant when he co-founded Bitcraze.

Arnaud likes embedded systems and beautiful code. He likes it best when he is able to design the hardware, write the bootstrap code, and finally design the software that runs on it. He also enjoys playing with bigger systems like the Bitcraze web servers.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Barbara Rousselot" role="Administration specialist" img="/images/team/barbara_rousselot_400px.jpg" bio="
Growing up in France and all over the world, Barbara has always been interested by helping others and learning from her passions. After her academic and literary education, she wanted to see the world and follow her passion. Along the years, she traveled a lot and obtained a lot of experience in many different fields: administration, community management, sales, even acting. Now she settled down, and uses every bit of what she has learned to deal with everything administration-related and non-technical.

Even though she has no formal education in coding or electronics, as a self-proclaimed geek she has a deep interest in technology and especially in videogames. And when she's not learning to code, she loves to read, knit, and often bakes, to the delight of the other team members!
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Mandy Xiang" role="Production specialist" img="/images/team/mandy_xiang_400px.jpg" bio="
Mandy is based in Shenzhen, China and has a background in Optoelectronics Technology with some foundation in electronic information technology. She has 15 years of project management experience, having held positions such as SQE and EPM at Foxconn, one of the world's leading electronics manufacturer, before joining Seeed Studio as an account manager, project manager and head of the prototyping business department. During that time, she also earned an MBA from Harbin Institute of Technology.

Mandy focuses on OEM and ODM project management, specializing in project coordination, follow-up, and has accumulated extensive experience in manufacturing and supply chain management. She hopes to contribute this knowledge and experience to the Bitcraze team to ensure efficient project progress and delivery of high quality products.

Outside of work, Mandy focuses on living an organized life, enjoys planning her life with a project management mindset, is passionate about crafting, meditating, reading and organizing her home, and enjoys an organized and beautiful life.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Marcus Eliasson" role="Developer & Co-founder" img="/images/team/marcus_eliasson_400px.jpg" bio="
At an early age Marcus was always eager to find out how things worked and managed to take apart quite a few toys without being able to put them back together. He’s always been interested in technology, science and engineering, but the focus of his interest has mostly been software development.
After a few years as a Java developer Marcus wanted to change directions in order to get closer to hardware. Mostly doing C and system design, the best spot for him to be in is right between hardware and software, getting the first prototype in your lap and starting to write the firmware for it.

After a few years of embedded systems consulting Marcus founded Bitcraze together with his two friends and colleagues Tobias and Arnaud.
Being an all-rounder Marcus does most things from high level scripting down to low level firmware and hardware design. His favorite thing is being involved in lots of different areas and making a complete system work.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Rik Bouwmeester" role="Developer" img="/images/team/rik_bouwmeester_400px.jpg" bio="
Rik's journey into the world of development took flight during his studies in Aerospace Engineering at Delft University of Technology. While fascinated by aerospace, Rik's true passion for programming emerged, prompting him to explore projects with more immediate feedback—a departure from the lengthy development cycles often associated with aerospace projects. This inclination towards tangible outcomes led him to delve into the world of quadcopters.

His fascination for autonomy is mirrored in his approach to flying drones; several years passed before he first used a manual controller. Outside the realm of technology, Rik finds solace in rock climbing, cooking, and exploring diverse musical genres while playing various instruments.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Tobias Antonsson" role="Developer & Co-founder" img="/images/team/tobias_antonsson_400px.jpg" bio="
Tobias Antonsson is a born computer and embedded nerd. Ever since he got his first electronics lab kit at an age of eight he has been hooked. He is an all-rounder with experience from computer graphics down to electronic hardware design and thrives best just in between, which makes embedded hardware and software a natural choice.
He loves being creative and a lot of his spare time is being spent on various robotic and R/C projects. One of them, the Crazyflie, has become his livelihood in his co-founded company Bitcraze AB. Work experience includes mobile, medical and electromechanical industries as well as open source/hardware.
"%}


{% include teammember.html member="Tove Rumar" role="Developer" img="/images/team/Tove_Rumar_400px.jpg" bio="
Tove is an embedded systems enthusiast that advocates for clean, testable code, drawing from her background in writing embedded software for radio modules.

Her early fascination with all things sciency and nerdy didn't immediately lead her to coding; it wasn't until later in life that she immersed herself in microprocessors and software development.
Tove's preference is to start by writing tests before the code, relishing the satisfaction of seeing successful tests once her work is complete. 
She also has a background in Environmental Science, and considers herself a generalist who likes looking at systems as a whole to understand how the pieces fits together.

Beyond her professional endeavors, Tove finds joy in board games, fantasy novels, and creative activities like crafting silver jewelry and clothing.
"%}

Commit message:

Update Arnaud's picture and add Aris to team page

src/about/team.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Team
page_id: about-team
redirects:
  - /team/
---


{% include teammember.html member="Arnaud Taffanel" role="Developer & Co-founder" img="/images/team/arnaud_taffanel_400px.jpg" bio="
Arnaud has been passionate about technology since his childhood. He has worked in various domains from embedded electronics for medical devices to Linux system integration for mobile phones and was working as an embedded system consultant when he co-founded Bitcraze.

Arnaud likes embedded systems and beautiful code. He likes it best when he is able to design the hardware, write the bootstrap code, and finally design the software that runs on it. He also enjoys playing with bigger systems like the Bitcraze web servers.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Aris Morsink Paloumpas" role="Developer & Intern" img="/images/team/aris_morsink_paloumpas_400px.jpg" bio="
Aris is a recent Mechanical Engineering graduate with a passion for robotics, which began at the age of 6 when he received his first of many LEGO sets. He would repeatedly take apart each structure, using the pieces to create a new, combined "masterpiece". At the age of 12, he delved into robotics and became fascinated by both the mechanical components and the control systems. He studied Mechanical Engineering for 5 years, following the division of Design and Manufacturing. It was during this time that he first encountered Bitcraze products, such as the Crazyflie 2.1 and the Lighthouse Positioning System, exploring swarming scenarios.

He traveled from Greece to work at Bitcraze as an intern, gaining valuable work experience and developing international adaptability. In his free time, he enjoys playing card games, solving puzzles, cooking, and rewatching his favorite movies and TV series over and over.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Barbara Rousselot" role="Administration specialist" img="/images/team/barbara_rousselot_400px.jpg" bio="
Growing up in France and all over the world, Barbara has always been interested by helping others and learning from her passions. After her academic and literary education, she wanted to see the world and follow her passion. Along the years, she traveled a lot and obtained a lot of experience in many different fields: administration, community management, sales, even acting. Now she settled down, and uses every bit of what she has learned to deal with everything administration-related and non-technical.

Even though she has no formal education in coding or electronics, as a self-proclaimed geek she has a deep interest in technology and especially in videogames. And when she's not learning to code, she loves to read, knit, and often bakes, to the delight of the other team members!
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Mandy Xiang" role="Production specialist" img="/images/team/mandy_xiang_400px.jpg" bio="
Mandy is based in Shenzhen, China and has a background in Optoelectronics Technology with some foundation in electronic information technology. She has 15 years of project management experience, having held positions such as SQE and EPM at Foxconn, one of the world's leading electronics manufacturer, before joining Seeed Studio as an account manager, project manager and head of the prototyping business department. During that time, she also earned an MBA from Harbin Institute of Technology.

Mandy focuses on OEM and ODM project management, specializing in project coordination, follow-up, and has accumulated extensive experience in manufacturing and supply chain management. She hopes to contribute this knowledge and experience to the Bitcraze team to ensure efficient project progress and delivery of high quality products.

Outside of work, Mandy focuses on living an organized life, enjoys planning her life with a project management mindset, is passionate about crafting, meditating, reading and organizing her home, and enjoys an organized and beautiful life.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Marcus Eliasson" role="Developer & Co-founder" img="/images/team/marcus_eliasson_400px.jpg" bio="
At an early age Marcus was always eager to find out how things worked and managed to take apart quite a few toys without being able to put them back together. He’s always been interested in technology, science and engineering, but the focus of his interest has mostly been software development.
After a few years as a Java developer Marcus wanted to change directions in order to get closer to hardware. Mostly doing C and system design, the best spot for him to be in is right between hardware and software, getting the first prototype in your lap and starting to write the firmware for it.

After a few years of embedded systems consulting Marcus founded Bitcraze together with his two friends and colleagues Tobias and Arnaud.
Being an all-rounder Marcus does most things from high level scripting down to low level firmware and hardware design. His favorite thing is being involved in lots of different areas and making a complete system work.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Rik Bouwmeester" role="Developer" img="/images/team/rik_bouwmeester_400px.jpg" bio="
Rik's journey into the world of development took flight during his studies in Aerospace Engineering at Delft University of Technology. While fascinated by aerospace, Rik's true passion for programming emerged, prompting him to explore projects with more immediate feedback—a departure from the lengthy development cycles often associated with aerospace projects. This inclination towards tangible outcomes led him to delve into the world of quadcopters.

His fascination for autonomy is mirrored in his approach to flying drones; several years passed before he first used a manual controller. Outside the realm of technology, Rik finds solace in rock climbing, cooking, and exploring diverse musical genres while playing various instruments.
"%}

{% include teammember.html member="Tobias Antonsson" role="Developer & Co-founder" img="/images/team/tobias_antonsson_400px.jpg" bio="
Tobias Antonsson is a born computer and embedded nerd. Ever since he got his first electronics lab kit at an age of eight he has been hooked. He is an all-rounder with experience from computer graphics down to electronic hardware design and thrives best just in between, which makes embedded hardware and software a natural choice.
He loves being creative and a lot of his spare time is being spent on various robotic and R/C projects. One of them, the Crazyflie, has become his livelihood in his co-founded company Bitcraze AB. Work experience includes mobile, medical and electromechanical industries as well as open source/hardware.
"%}


{% include teammember.html member="Tove Rumar" role="Developer" img="/images/team/Tove_Rumar_400px.jpg" bio="
Tove is an embedded systems enthusiast that advocates for clean, testable code, drawing from her background in writing embedded software for radio modules.

Her early fascination with all things sciency and nerdy didn't immediately lead her to coding; it wasn't until later in life that she immersed herself in microprocessors and software development.
Tove's preference is to start by writing tests before the code, relishing the satisfaction of seeing successful tests once her work is complete. 
She also has a background in Environmental Science, and considers herself a generalist who likes looking at systems as a whole to understand how the pieces fits together.

Beyond her professional endeavors, Tove finds joy in board games, fantasy novels, and creative activities like crafting silver jewelry and clothing.
"%}
