src/portals/development.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Development
permalink: /development/
page_id: development
---

{% img Dev board; medium; /images/frontpage/front-page-portal-pic-1.jpg %}

The Crazyflie is the perfect development tool for your flying application. Add external
sensors and other hardware as needed, interfaced through the flexible expansion 
port. Modify or extend the firmware of the quadcopter to access or control your 
hardware - it is all open source. Do it all in the comfort of your
lab, the Crazyflie is small and lightweight and can be flown indoors without 
extensive safety equipment.

Maybe you are interested in 
control algorithms and have an idea you want to try out? Just do it!

There is a paramter and data logging system that makes it very easy to monitor
or control paramters and data in the copter when connected to the client 
application on your computer. Set a parameters to control your hardware or 
read sensor data from your sensors. All in real time and graphed on your screen.
 
When your application is working as expected you can go bigger and use the Crazyflie 
control board on a bigger quadcopter frame and fly it outdoors.  

There are APIs for many languages that you can use to control the copter, or 
why not connect to [ROS](http://www.ros.org/) or use the 
[ZeroMQ](http://zeromq.org/) messaging buss? The community has 
created a wide array of frameworks and tools to connect and control the system.

To make it super easy to [get started with development](/getting-started-with-development/), we have created a 
virtual machine where all the tools you need are installed and pre configured.
No problems of setting up your compiler for the right CPU architecture or 
installation of tools, it is woking out of the box.

Connect a debugger to the Crazyflie to easily debug and investigate what is 
going on in the firmware. The CPU is over powered to give your application the 
CPU time it needs to its job. 

Our goal has been to make the Crazyflie a versatile development platform that 
gives you the power to try your ideas out. Go play!

Commit message:

added text for edu and dev portals

src/portals/development.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Development
permalink: /development/
page_id: development
---

{% img Dev board; wide; /images/portals/portal-development-header.jpg %}

## The Crazyflie is the perfect development tool for your flying application 
------

#### Flexible
Add external sensors and other hardware as needed, interfaced through the flexible expansion 
port. Modify or extend the firmware of the quadcopter to access or control your 
hardware - it is all open source. Do it all in the comfort of your lab, the Crazyflie is small and lightweight and can be flown indoors without 
extensive safety equipment. Maybe you are interested in control algorithms and have an idea you want to try out? Just do it!

#### Easy
There is a parameter and data logging system that makes it very easy to monitor
or control paramters and data in the copter when connected to the client 
application on your computer. Set a parameters to control your hardware or 
read sensor data from your sensors. All in real time and graphed on your screen.
When your application is working as expected you can go bigger and use the Crazyflie 
control board on a bigger quadcopter frame and fly it outdoors.  

#### Versatile
There are APIs for many languages that you can use to control the copter, or 
why not connect to [ROS](http://www.ros.org/) or use the 
[ZeroMQ](http://zeromq.org/) messaging buss? The community has 
created a wide array of frameworks and tools to connect and control the system.

#### Out of the box
To make it super easy to [get started with development](/getting-started-with-development/), we have created a 
virtual machine where all the tools you need are installed and pre configured.
No problems of setting up your compiler for the right CPU architecture or 
installation of tools, it is woking out of the box.

#### Power
Connect a debugger to the Crazyflie to easily debug and investigate what is 
going on in the firmware. The CPU is over powered to give your application the 
CPU time it needs to its job. Our goal has been to make the Crazyflie a versatile development platform that gives you the power to try your ideas out. 
**Go play!**
