src/portals/industry.md, before:

---
layout: page-portal
title: Industry
permalink: /industry/
page_id: industry
---

## Use the Crazyflie as an evaluation and reference platform 
------

The Crazyflie is used by sensor manufacturers as a demonstrator to show the potential
of their sensors. Giving the customer a first hand view of the performance of a 
sensor in a real flying application is a powerful way to showcase its properties.
The small size and light weight makes it safe to fly when meeting customers or in the lab.
 
#### Reference and evaluation decks

An expansion deck is a perfect reference and evaluation board for a sensor. The
design of a deck is usually very simple and clearly demonstrates the electrical properties, and
when plugged into the Crazyflie all the power and functionality of the 
host platform is available. The customer has the possibility to try settings and  
configurations and to evaluate the results when actually flying a real drone. 
Since all software, firmware and tools are open source, there are no limits to 
what can be tested from bits and bytes on the lowest level to high level 
features such as autonomous flight. 

#### Deck design

The flexibility and simplicity of the Crazyflie expansion bus makes it easy and 
cost efficient to design decks for new sensors with a short time to market. 
The Crazyflie platform is already a fully functional quadcopter and all that is 
needed from a firmware point of view is to add a driver.

### Services

As a sensor manufacturer you may design, manufacture and distribute
reference and evaluation decks based on the Crazyflie platform any way you like.
We at Bitcraze are happy to collaborate and work together with you on drivers
or other software that adds value to the platform. 

If you prefer, Bitcraze can help out with some or all steps in the chain from 
deck design to distribution to enable you to focus on other areas. Please 
contact us at <a href="mailto:sales@bitcraze.io">sales@bitcraze.io</a> 
for more information of our services and pricing.

Commit message:

added header images to Industry portal

src/portals/industry.md, after:

---
layout: page-portal
title: Industry
permalink: /industry/
page_id: industry
---

{% img education header; wide; \images\portals\portal-industry-header.JPG %}

## Use the Crazyflie as an evaluation and reference platform
------

The Crazyflie is used by sensor manufacturers as a demonstrator to show the potential
of their sensors. Giving the customer a first hand view of the performance of a
sensor in a real flying application is a powerful way to showcase its properties.
The small size and light weight makes it safe to fly when meeting customers or in the lab.

#### Reference and evaluation decks

An expansion deck is a perfect reference and evaluation board for a sensor. The
design of a deck is usually very simple and clearly demonstrates the electrical properties, and
when plugged into the Crazyflie all the power and functionality of the
host platform is available. The customer has the possibility to try settings and  
configurations and to evaluate the results when actually flying a real drone.
Since all software, firmware and tools are open source, there are no limits to
what can be tested from bits and bytes on the lowest level to high level
features such as autonomous flight.

#### Deck design

The flexibility and simplicity of the Crazyflie expansion bus makes it easy and
cost efficient to design decks for new sensors with a short time to market.
The Crazyflie platform is already a fully functional quadcopter and all that is
needed from a firmware point of view is to add a driver.

### Services

As a sensor manufacturer you may design, manufacture and distribute
reference and evaluation decks based on the Crazyflie platform any way you like.
We at Bitcraze are happy to collaborate and work together with you on drivers
or other software that adds value to the platform.

If you prefer, Bitcraze can help out with some or all steps in the chain from
deck design to distribution to enable you to focus on other areas. Please
contact us at <a href="mailto:sales@bitcraze.io">sales@bitcraze.io</a>
for more information of our services and pricing.
