src/portals/research.md, before:

---
layout: page-portal
title: Used in research
permalink: /research/
page_id: research
---

{% img Flight lab; wide; /images/portals/research/industry_portal.JPG %}

## The Crazyflie is ideal for many areas of research
---

#### Flexible

The Crazyflie is the ideal tool for research in many areas, for instance control algorithms,
swarms, path finding, agriculture or failure recovery. The platform is designed to be as
flexible and versatile as possible to enable the user to explore the area of interest.

#### Extendable

Add new sensors or other hardware to support your needs, the expansion port supports a variety
of interfaces and there is plenty of power in the processors for you to use. If you need
more lifting capacity, use the BigQuad deck and move your application to a bigger frame,
while still being able to develop it in the comfort of your lab.

#### Tools

The Crazyflie can be controlled from a number of programming languages and also integrates with
tools and frameworks such as ROS or ZeroMQ. It works well with standard development tools to make
your work a breeze.

#### Open

It is all open to allow you to change what you need to change, you will never be locked in
by limited APIs or closed software. Never.

## How the Crazyflie 2.0 is used by universities
---
__Universities around the world are using the Crazyflie 2.0 in different types of research fields. Here we have collected guest blog posts from our [blog](/blog/) to show some examples.__

### Crazyflie used by Carnegie Mellon University

__*"We use the Crazyflie platform to evaluate our algorithms because the hardware is robust and the user community has helped make firmware available on which we can base our own systems"*__
-Ellen Cappo, researcher at Carnegie Mellon University.

Read about how the researchers at Carnegie Mellon University are using the Crazyflie 2.0 to test theory on real world systems.
[Towards persistent, adaptive multi-robot systems](https://bitcraze.io/2017/06/towards-persistent-adaptive-multi-robot-systems/).

{% youtube kr99SU22jDY; medium; 16by9 %}

### Crazyflie used by MIT

__*"The Crazyflie is easily obtainable, safe, and (we can certify ourselves) very robust. Moreover, since it is open-source and fully programmable, we were able to easily modify the Crazyflie to fit our needs."*__
-Brandon Araki, researcher at MIT.

In [Multi-robot Path Planning for Flying-and-Driving Vehicles](https://bitcraze.io/2017/07/multi-robot-path-planning-for-flying-and-driving-vehicles/)
you can read about how the researchers at MIT are using the Crazyflie 2.0 to study the coordination of multiple robots.

{% youtube s-oFD5X-QtQ; medium; 16by9 %}

## Crazyflie used in research
---
{% media_gallery %}
{% gallery_youtube T9fkjAp942A; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube YnGZ-arUwgc; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube D0CrjoYDt9w; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube CP-fBvcUAls; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube DJ1IZRL5t1Q; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube bAhLW1eq8eM; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube dpNV-zmjvkc; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube gH1Fcf597So; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube px9iHkA0nOI; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube JoWU8qoAk84; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube ZrQbruTtzfQ; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube oreVFqRntXY; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube QjxF9zUlIx0; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube NwxOwYi0jFQ; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube LXng1v8lwbk; 16by9 %}
{% endmedia_gallery %}


### Publications involving Crazyflie 2.0
---
* **"Downwash-Aware Trajectory Planning for Large Quadrotor Teams"**, James A. Preiss, Wolfgang Hönig, Nora Ayanian, and Gaurav S. Sukhatme, in Proc. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2017. 
[PDF, ](http://usc-actlab.github.io/publications/Preiss_IROS2017.pdf)
[Video](http://youtu.be/YnGZ-arUwgc)

* **"Modelling and Control of the Crazyflie Quadrotor for Aggressive and Autonomous Flight by Optical Flow Driven State Estimation"**, M. Greiff, Master's thesis, Lund University, 2017.
[PDF](http://lup.lub.lu.se/student-papers/record/8905295/file/8905299.pdf)

* **"Crazyflie 2.0 Quadrotor as a Platform for Research and Education in Robotics and Control Engineering"**,
Wojciech Giernacki, Mateusz Skwierczyński, Wojciech Witwicki, Paweł Wroński and Piotr Kozierski, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Institute of Control and Information Engineering Poznan University of Technology, Poland, 2017.
[PDF, ](/papers/giernacki_draft_crazyflie2.0.pdf)
[Video 1, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BQJHj0SBhys)
[Video 2, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2HkxI_KMcY)
[Video 3, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3r1ks7B15AA)
[Video 4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IAwlL2Y9XHA)

* **"Planning and Control for Quadrotor Flight through Cluttered Environments"**, B. Landry,  Master's thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA, June 2015.
[PDF, ](http://groups.csail.mit.edu/robotics-center/public_papers/Landry15.pdf)
[Video, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-s564NoAu0)
[Code](https://github.com/blandry/crazyflie-tools)

* **"Mixed Reality for Robotics"**, W. Hönig, C. Milanes, L. Scaria, T. Phan, M. Bolas, and N. Ayanian, IROS, 2015.
[PDF, ](http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~ayanian/files/Ayanian_IROS2015a.pdf)
[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=px9iHkA0nOI)

* **"System Identification of the Crazyflie 2.0 Nano Quadrocopter"**, J. Förster,  Bachelor's thesis, ETH Zürich, 2015.
[PDF, ](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/20dde63ee00ffe7085964393a55a91c7)

* **"Stippling with aerial robots"**, B. Galea, E. Kia, N. Aird, and P. G. Kry, Computational Aesthetics / Expressive, 2016.
[PDF, ](http://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~kry/pubs/stippling/stippling.pdf)
[Video 1, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CP-fBvcUAls)
[Video 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N_B6Fs9U_go)

* **"Crazyswarm: A Large Nano-Quadcopter Swarm"**, James A. Preiss, Wolfgang Hönig, Gaurav S. Sukhatme and Nora Ayanian, in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2017.
[PDF, ](http://usc-actlab.github.io/publications/Preiss_ICRA2017.pdf)
[Video](https://youtu.be/ezTayb76x9U)

* **"A Hybrid Method for Online Trajectory Planning of Mobile Robots in Cluttered Environments"**,
Leobardo Campos-Macías, David Gómez-Gutiérrez, Rodrigo Aldana-López, Rafael de la Guardia and José I. Parra Vilchis, Multi-Agent Autonomous Systems - Intel Labs, 2017.
[PDF, ](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2017.2655145) or
[PDF, ](/papers/online-trajectory-planning-in-cluttered-environments.pdf)
[Video](https://youtu.be/DJ1IZRL5t1Q)

* **"Study and Development of Target Following Capability on Nano-Sized Unmanned Aerial Vehicles"**, Jaskirat Singh, Master's Thesis, ETH Zürich, 2017.
[PDF, ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B25OtRh9Sj8PYTh6MDlFZ1o2blU)
[Video](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLjVmOOHPDGkDay3pz_ElfohVTDqN4aBiS)

### Publications involving Crazyflie 1.0
---
* **“Development of a wireless video transfer system for remote control of a lightweight UAV”**, J. Tosteberg and T. Axelsson, Master’s thesis, Linköping University, Sweden, June 2012.
[PDF](http://liu.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:534744/FULLTEXT01.pdf)

* **“Visual inertial control of a nano-quadrotor”**, O. M. W. Dunkley, Master’s thesis, Technical University Munich, Germany, Sept. 2014.
[PDF, ](https://vision.in.tum.de/_media/spezial/bib/dunkley14msc.pdf)
[Code](https://github.com/omwdunkley/crazyflieROS)

* **“Visual-inertial navigation for a camera-equipped 25g nano-quadrotor”**, O. Dunkley, J. Engel, J. Sturm, and D. Cremers,  in IROS2014 Aerial Open Source Robotics Workshop, 2014.
[PDF, ](https://vision.in.tum.de/_media/spezial/bib/dunkley14iros.pdf)
[Video](https://vision.in.tum.de/_media/spezial/bib/dunkley14iros.mp4)

* **“HoverBall : Augmented Sports with a Flying Ball”**, Kei Nitta, Keita Higuchi and Jun Rekimoto, 5th International Conference on Augmented Human (AH 2014), 2014.
[PDF](https://rekimotolab.files.wordpress.com/2014/02/a13-nitta.pdf)

* **"Perching Failure Detection and Recovery with Onboard Sensing"**, Hao Jiang, Morgan T. Pope, Matthew A. Estrada, Bobby Edwards, Mark Cuson, Elliot W. Hawkes and Mark R. Cutkosky, IROS, 2015.
[PDF, ](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7353531&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7353531)
[Video](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=xhtbprB5Rqs)

* **"Nonlinear control strategies for quadrotors and CubeSats"**, Giri Prashanth Subramanian, Master’s thesis, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA, July 2015.
[PDF](https://www.ideals.illinois.edu/bitstream/handle/2142/88078/SUBRAMANIAN-THESIS-2015.pdf?sequence=1)

<div class="col-md-12">
  <p class="text-right">Want to add a publication? <a href="https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-website/edit/master/src/{{page.path}}"><i class="fa fa-pencil"></i> &nbsp;Improve this page</a></p>
</div>

Commit message:

Add Erik's Master Thesis to research portal

src/portals/research.md, after:

---
layout: page-portal
title: Used in research
permalink: /research/
page_id: research
---

{% img Flight lab; wide; /images/portals/research/industry_portal.JPG %}

## The Crazyflie is ideal for many areas of research
---

#### Flexible

The Crazyflie is the ideal tool for research in many areas, for instance control algorithms,
swarms, path finding, agriculture or failure recovery. The platform is designed to be as
flexible and versatile as possible to enable the user to explore the area of interest.

#### Extendable

Add new sensors or other hardware to support your needs, the expansion port supports a variety
of interfaces and there is plenty of power in the processors for you to use. If you need
more lifting capacity, use the BigQuad deck and move your application to a bigger frame,
while still being able to develop it in the comfort of your lab.

#### Tools

The Crazyflie can be controlled from a number of programming languages and also integrates with
tools and frameworks such as ROS or ZeroMQ. It works well with standard development tools to make
your work a breeze.

#### Open

It is all open to allow you to change what you need to change, you will never be locked in
by limited APIs or closed software. Never.

## How the Crazyflie 2.0 is used by universities
---
__Universities around the world are using the Crazyflie 2.0 in different types of research fields. Here we have collected guest blog posts from our [blog](/blog/) to show some examples.__

### Crazyflie used by Carnegie Mellon University

__*"We use the Crazyflie platform to evaluate our algorithms because the hardware is robust and the user community has helped make firmware available on which we can base our own systems"*__
-Ellen Cappo, researcher at Carnegie Mellon University.

Read about how the researchers at Carnegie Mellon University are using the Crazyflie 2.0 to test theory on real world systems.
[Towards persistent, adaptive multi-robot systems](https://bitcraze.io/2017/06/towards-persistent-adaptive-multi-robot-systems/).

{% youtube kr99SU22jDY; medium; 16by9 %}

### Crazyflie used by MIT

__*"The Crazyflie is easily obtainable, safe, and (we can certify ourselves) very robust. Moreover, since it is open-source and fully programmable, we were able to easily modify the Crazyflie to fit our needs."*__
-Brandon Araki, researcher at MIT.

In [Multi-robot Path Planning for Flying-and-Driving Vehicles](https://bitcraze.io/2017/07/multi-robot-path-planning-for-flying-and-driving-vehicles/)
you can read about how the researchers at MIT are using the Crazyflie 2.0 to study the coordination of multiple robots.

{% youtube s-oFD5X-QtQ; medium; 16by9 %}

## Crazyflie used in research
---
{% media_gallery %}
{% gallery_youtube T9fkjAp942A; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube YnGZ-arUwgc; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube D0CrjoYDt9w; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube CP-fBvcUAls; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube DJ1IZRL5t1Q; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube bAhLW1eq8eM; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube dpNV-zmjvkc; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube gH1Fcf597So; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube px9iHkA0nOI; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube JoWU8qoAk84; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube ZrQbruTtzfQ; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube oreVFqRntXY; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube QjxF9zUlIx0; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube NwxOwYi0jFQ; 16by9 %}
{% gallery_youtube LXng1v8lwbk; 16by9 %}
{% endmedia_gallery %}


### Publications involving Crazyflie 2.0
---
* **"Downwash-Aware Trajectory Planning for Large Quadrotor Teams"**, James A. Preiss, Wolfgang Hönig, Nora Ayanian, and Gaurav S. Sukhatme, in Proc. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2017. 
[PDF, ](http://usc-actlab.github.io/publications/Preiss_IROS2017.pdf)
[Video](http://youtu.be/YnGZ-arUwgc)

* **"Modelling and Control of the Crazyflie Quadrotor for Aggressive and Autonomous Flight by Optical Flow Driven State Estimation"**, M. Greiff, Master's thesis, Lund University, 2017.
[PDF](http://lup.lub.lu.se/student-papers/record/8905295/file/8905299.pdf)

* **"Crazyflie 2.0 Quadrotor as a Platform for Research and Education in Robotics and Control Engineering"**,
Wojciech Giernacki, Mateusz Skwierczyński, Wojciech Witwicki, Paweł Wroński and Piotr Kozierski, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Institute of Control and Information Engineering Poznan University of Technology, Poland, 2017.
[PDF, ](/papers/giernacki_draft_crazyflie2.0.pdf)
[Video 1, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BQJHj0SBhys)
[Video 2, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2HkxI_KMcY)
[Video 3, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3r1ks7B15AA)
[Video 4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IAwlL2Y9XHA)

* **"Planning and Control for Quadrotor Flight through Cluttered Environments"**, B. Landry,  Master's thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA, June 2015.
[PDF, ](http://groups.csail.mit.edu/robotics-center/public_papers/Landry15.pdf)
[Video, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-s564NoAu0)
[Code](https://github.com/blandry/crazyflie-tools)

* **"Mixed Reality for Robotics"**, W. Hönig, C. Milanes, L. Scaria, T. Phan, M. Bolas, and N. Ayanian, IROS, 2015.
[PDF, ](http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~ayanian/files/Ayanian_IROS2015a.pdf)
[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=px9iHkA0nOI)

* **"System Identification of the Crazyflie 2.0 Nano Quadrocopter"**, J. Förster,  Bachelor's thesis, ETH Zürich, 2015.
[PDF, ](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/20dde63ee00ffe7085964393a55a91c7)

* **"Stippling with aerial robots"**, B. Galea, E. Kia, N. Aird, and P. G. Kry, Computational Aesthetics / Expressive, 2016.
[PDF, ](http://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~kry/pubs/stippling/stippling.pdf)
[Video 1, ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CP-fBvcUAls)
[Video 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N_B6Fs9U_go)

* **"Crazyswarm: A Large Nano-Quadcopter Swarm"**, James A. Preiss, Wolfgang Hönig, Gaurav S. Sukhatme and Nora Ayanian, in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2017.
[PDF, ](http://usc-actlab.github.io/publications/Preiss_ICRA2017.pdf)
[Video](https://youtu.be/ezTayb76x9U)

* **"A Hybrid Method for Online Trajectory Planning of Mobile Robots in Cluttered Environments"**,
Leobardo Campos-Macías, David Gómez-Gutiérrez, Rodrigo Aldana-López, Rafael de la Guardia and José I. Parra Vilchis, Multi-Agent Autonomous Systems - Intel Labs, 2017.
[PDF, ](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2017.2655145) or
[PDF, ](/papers/online-trajectory-planning-in-cluttered-environments.pdf)
[Video](https://youtu.be/DJ1IZRL5t1Q)

* **"Study and Development of Target Following Capability on Nano-Sized Unmanned Aerial Vehicles"**, Jaskirat Singh, Master's Thesis, ETH Zürich, 2017.
[PDF, ](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B25OtRh9Sj8PYTh6MDlFZ1o2blU)
[Video](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLjVmOOHPDGkDay3pz_ElfohVTDqN4aBiS)

* **"Smoothing and Mapping of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Using Ultra-wideband Sensors"**, Erik Strömberg's Master Thesis, KTH, Stockholm, 2017.
[PDF](http://kth.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A1148538&dswid=390)

### Publications involving Crazyflie 1.0
---
* **“Development of a wireless video transfer system for remote control of a lightweight UAV”**, J. Tosteberg and T. Axelsson, Master’s thesis, Linköping University, Sweden, June 2012.
[PDF](http://liu.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:534744/FULLTEXT01.pdf)

* **“Visual inertial control of a nano-quadrotor”**, O. M. W. Dunkley, Master’s thesis, Technical University Munich, Germany, Sept. 2014.
[PDF, ](https://vision.in.tum.de/_media/spezial/bib/dunkley14msc.pdf)
[Code](https://github.com/omwdunkley/crazyflieROS)

* **“Visual-inertial navigation for a camera-equipped 25g nano-quadrotor”**, O. Dunkley, J. Engel, J. Sturm, and D. Cremers,  in IROS2014 Aerial Open Source Robotics Workshop, 2014.
[PDF, ](https://vision.in.tum.de/_media/spezial/bib/dunkley14iros.pdf)
[Video](https://vision.in.tum.de/_media/spezial/bib/dunkley14iros.mp4)

* **“HoverBall : Augmented Sports with a Flying Ball”**, Kei Nitta, Keita Higuchi and Jun Rekimoto, 5th International Conference on Augmented Human (AH 2014), 2014.
[PDF](https://rekimotolab.files.wordpress.com/2014/02/a13-nitta.pdf)

* **"Perching Failure Detection and Recovery with Onboard Sensing"**, Hao Jiang, Morgan T. Pope, Matthew A. Estrada, Bobby Edwards, Mark Cuson, Elliot W. Hawkes and Mark R. Cutkosky, IROS, 2015.
[PDF, ](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7353531&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7353531)
[Video](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=xhtbprB5Rqs)

* **"Nonlinear control strategies for quadrotors and CubeSats"**, Giri Prashanth Subramanian, Master’s thesis, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA, July 2015.
[PDF](https://www.ideals.illinois.edu/bitstream/handle/2142/88078/SUBRAMANIAN-THESIS-2015.pdf?sequence=1)

<div class="col-md-12">
  <p class="text-right">Want to add a publication? <a href="https://github.com/bitcraze/bitcraze-website/edit/master/src/{{page.path}}"><i class="fa fa-pencil"></i> &nbsp;Improve this page</a></p>
</div>
