src/products/loco-pos-deck.md, before:

---
layout: page-product
title: Loco Positioning deck
permalink: /loco-pos-deck/
page_id: product-loco-pos-deck
---

{% buy_online https://store.bitcraze.io/collections/positioning/products/loco-positioning-deck %}

{% product_img Loco Positioning deck; medium; /images/loco-pos-deck/locoPositioning_deck_585px_side.JPG %}


{% product_highlight
fa-map-marker;
Absolute position;
Let your Crazyflie 2.0 know where it is using the Loco Positioning expansion deck
%}

The Loco Positioning Deck is a Tag in a Loco Positioning system and measures
the distances to Anchors. The distances are used to estimate the
absolute position of the Crazyflie 2.0 in the room, which can be used for
autonomous flight.

[Read more about the Loco Positioning system](/loco-pos-system/)

This product is intended to be used together with
[Loco Positioning Nodes](/loco-pos-node/) and can not be used standalone.

---


#### Resources

- [Loco positioning system](/loco-pos-system/)
- [Start here](/start/)
- [Buyers guide](/crazyflie-2-0-buyers-guide/)
- [Development](/development-overview/)
- [FAQ](/frequently-asked-questions-Crazyflie-2.0/)
- [Getting help](/getting-help/)
- [Wiki](https://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:lps:deck)
- [Specifications](https://store.bitcraze.io/collections/decks/products/loco-positioning-deck)

---


#### Tutorials

* [Getting started with expansion decks](/getting-started-with-expansion-decks/)
* [Getting started with the Loco Positioning system](/getting-started-with-the-loco-positioning-system/)

Commit message:

Added information to the Loco Positioning system that explains that position is calculated in the copter

src/products/loco-pos-deck.md, after:

---
layout: page-product
title: Loco Positioning deck
permalink: /loco-pos-deck/
page_id: product-loco-pos-deck
---

{% buy_online https://store.bitcraze.io/collections/positioning/products/loco-positioning-deck %}

{% product_img Loco Positioning deck; medium; /images/loco-pos-deck/locoPositioning_deck_585px_side.JPG %}


{% product_highlight
fa-map-marker;
Absolute position;
Let your Crazyflie 2.0 know where it is using the Loco Positioning expansion deck
%}

The Loco Positioning Deck is a Tag in a Loco Positioning system and measures
the distances to Anchors. The distances are used to estimate the
absolute position of the Crazyflie 2.0 in the room, which can be used for
autonomous flight. The position is calculated on-board of the Crazyflie and there
is no need for an external computer for position estimation. 

[Read more about the Loco Positioning system](/loco-pos-system/)

This product is intended to be used together with
[Loco Positioning Nodes](/loco-pos-node/) and can not be used standalone.

---


#### Resources

- [Loco positioning system](/loco-pos-system/)
- [Start here](/start/)
- [Buyers guide](/crazyflie-2-0-buyers-guide/)
- [Development](/development-overview/)
- [FAQ](/frequently-asked-questions-Crazyflie-2.0/)
- [Getting help](/getting-help/)
- [Wiki](https://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:lps:deck)
- [Specifications](https://store.bitcraze.io/collections/decks/products/loco-positioning-deck)

---


#### Tutorials

* [Getting started with expansion decks](/getting-started-with-expansion-decks/)
* [Getting started with the Loco Positioning system](/getting-started-with-the-loco-positioning-system/)
